README.md, before:

[![GitHub][github-shield]][github-url] [![License][license-shield]][license-url]   [![Email][gmail-shield]][gmail-url] ![Discord: landomrandom Status][discord-shield-static]

[github-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-121727?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19&logo=github&logoColor=00c6ff
[github-url]: https://github.com/LandoNikko/Pilko-Frame-Capture-Studio

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-121727?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=080c19&messageColor=e0e6f7&logo=gnu&logoColor=00c6ff
[license-url]: LICENSE

[gmail-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19&logo=gmail&logoColor=00c6ff
[gmail-url]: landonikko@gmail.com

[discord-shield-static]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-landomrandom-121727?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=080c19&messageColor=e0e6f7&logo=discord&logoColor=00c6ff

**Pilko Frame Capture Studio** is a privacy-first, browser-based tool for extracting frames from your video files locally, offering a range of flexible extraction options. It works seamlessly on both desktop and mobile devices.

Try it here: https://pilko.studio

Offline download: `index.html`

<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3decfc6-0834-4eaa-b5ee-46a7a0797ce7" controls width="600"></video>

## ![Features Shield][features-shield]

- Video metadata display (resolution, duration, aspect ratio, bitrate).
- Capture format (PNG, JPEG, WEBP) and quality (1-100%).
- Automatically remove black bars.
- Output
  - `Manual` - Navigate video player to capture and save specific frames.
  - `Interval` - Capture frames automatically at set time intervals (seconds).
  - `Smart Auto` - Use algorithms (Histogram or Pixel Difference) to detect and capture visually distinct frames with adjustable sensitivity.
  - `Contact Sheet` - Generate a grid of frames as a single image.
- Preview frames in a gallery/lightbox, remove unwanted frames, download individually or as ZIP.

![Pilko_Panel](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c9c2363-09c0-4ba6-b508-e760baaf3619)

[features-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Features-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![Privacy & Processing Shield][processing-shield]

- No cloud processing or installations.
- 100% client-side: built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- Frames are stored temporarily in your browser.

[processing-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Privacy%20&%20Processing-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![Use Cases Shield][use-cases-shield]

`thumbnails`, `lecture screenshots`, `visual notes`, `design references`, `mood board`, `film analysis`, `AI dataset building`, `Midjourney style references`

[use-cases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Use_Cases-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![How it Works Shield][how-it-works-shield] [![Try it][demo-shield]][demo-url]

The tool finds timestamps (or you pick them). Your browser's built-in capabilities (`<video>`, `<canvas>`) capture the frame at that time, optionally cropping based on black bar detection, encode it to the selected image format, and provide the image data for display/download.

[how-it-works-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/How_it_Works-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

[demo-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_it-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19
[demo-url]: [URL](https://pilko.studio)

<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/16b17ae7-c46b-4b34-b45b-593505b835f5" controls width="600"></video>

## ![Feedback Shield][feedback-shield]

[![Email][gmail-shield]][gmail-url] ![Discord: landomrandom Status][discord-shield-static]

[feedback-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Feedback-242c44?style=for-the-badge&color=121727&logo=github&logoColor=00c6ff

Commit message:

v1.2.0 - UI/UX improvements, add example video

README.md, after:

[![GitHub][github-shield]][github-url] [![License][license-shield]][license-url]   [![Email][gmail-shield]][gmail-url] ![Discord: landomrandom Status][discord-shield-static]

[github-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-121727?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19&logo=github&logoColor=00c6ff
[github-url]: https://github.com/LandoNikko/Pilko-Frame-Capture-Studio

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-121727?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=080c19&messageColor=e0e6f7&logo=gnu&logoColor=00c6ff
[license-url]: LICENSE

[gmail-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19&logo=gmail&logoColor=00c6ff
[gmail-url]: landonikko@gmail.com

[discord-shield-static]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-landomrandom-121727?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=080c19&messageColor=e0e6f7&logo=discord&logoColor=00c6ff

**Pilko Frame Capture Studio** is a privacy-first, browser-based tool for extracting frames from your video files locally, offering a range of flexible extraction options. It works seamlessly on both desktop and mobile devices.

Try it here: https://pilko.studio

Offline download: `index.html`

<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3decfc6-0834-4eaa-b5ee-46a7a0797ce7" controls width="600"></video>

## ![Features Shield][features-shield]

- Example video for first testing.
- Video metadata display (resolution, duration, aspect ratio, bitrate).
- Capture format (PNG, JPEG, WEBP) and quality (1-100%).
- Automatically remove black bars.
- Output
  - `Manual` - Navigate video player to capture and save specific frames.
  - `Interval` - Capture frames automatically at set time intervals (seconds).
  - `Smart Auto` - Use algorithms (Histogram or Pixel Difference) to detect and capture visually distinct frames with adjustable sensitivity.
  - `Grid` - Create a grid of frames to a single image.
- Preview frames in a gallery/lightbox, remove unwanted frames, download individually or as ZIP.

![Pilko_Panel](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c9c2363-09c0-4ba6-b508-e760baaf3619)

[features-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Features-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![Privacy & Processing Shield][processing-shield]

- No cloud processing or installations.
- 100% client-side: built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- Frames are stored temporarily in your browser.

[processing-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Privacy%20&%20Processing-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![Use Cases Shield][use-cases-shield]

`thumbnails`, `lecture screenshots`, `visual notes`, `design references`, `mood board`, `film analysis`, `AI dataset building`, `Midjourney style references`

[use-cases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Use_Cases-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

## ![How it Works Shield][how-it-works-shield] [![Try it][demo-shield]][demo-url]

The tool finds timestamps (or you pick them). Your browser's built-in capabilities (`<video>`, `<canvas>`) capture the frame at that time, optionally cropping based on black bar detection, encode it to the selected image format, and provide the image data for display/download.

[how-it-works-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/How_it_Works-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=121727

[demo-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_it-00c6ff?style=for-the-badge&color=080c19
[demo-url]: [URL](https://pilko.studio)

<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/16b17ae7-c46b-4b34-b45b-593505b835f5" controls width="600"></video>

## ![Feedback Shield][feedback-shield]

[![Email][gmail-shield]][gmail-url] ![Discord: landomrandom Status][discord-shield-static]

[feedback-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Feedback-242c44?style=for-the-badge&color=121727&logo=github&logoColor=00c6ff
